---
layout: post
title:  "Gaming"
date:   2024-05-10 15:00:00 +0000
categories: gaming vscode emacs
---
## Added Some `emacs` Config
Just a compile test of the latest emacs at present, but VSCode is getting a little irritating to be used in production.

EDIT: Ah, VSCode locked up again ...

## Been Thinking about Gaming
Ah, yes a space game of the adventure type with perhaps some mild action increase in the interaction game phase.

Maybe I should also look into WASM? or some generic machine to run the adventure. Sure, it's been done before, but should be fun doing it again. Compressed maps, object grammars (NLP), a small amount of pixel or SVG art?

I wonder if some kind of constrained chatAPI query would be good for building some automatic scenario making, although it would have to have some kind of connection to the coordinate based object system. I mean what does it mean to be placed in the platonic reality coordinate system as a document to a fact?

EDIT: I suppose some kind of space theming with a multilayer tile map. In go with the use of interfaces for the abstractions. I'd be more into advancing the game AI than going the extensive graphical special effects. That sort of stuff could come later. 

Maybe some ideas based about using complex numbers as object parameters, and perhaps relativistic ideas of proper time with "special" skills. I mean a black hole would cause really strange directions for gravity. Given that a large number of characters can have independent "lives" through their own AI action fullfillment stacks as they solve their own goals, along with the multiplayer aspects. I set up a PostgreSQL instance just in case the "data" for character's minds would need such a thing.

## So Location 2024-05-14
* A literal location on the map.
* A symbolic pointer location on a notary object to a literal location.
* A symbolic handle location on a notary object to a position on a notary object (to a literal location).
* Etc., although not needing higher handle types if location is abstracted to a literal/notary enum/generic.
This makes the concept of time, or `aging()` (more specifically time rate or velocity action) best hidden from the abstraction as raw concepts such as velocity.
So `visible()` can incorporate daylight and distance implicitly. A character can via its mind be a notary "map" object.
