---
layout: post
title:  "Rofi, Wilma and Distrobox"
date:   2024-07-12 18:15:00 +0000
categories: mint wilma rofi distrobox c utility theme gtk remmina xrdp dwm
---
So I bound `rofi` to `M-r` in Emacs, and it's a nice fast tool. I put a config in `extras-backup` and even added a simple C "script" plugin to get started. It uses shell system calls to achieve the interface to `rofi`, but is designed to allow easy adapting C code producing standard out "exit messages". So yes, I like it, but not having to attach a key bind to any particular window manager (at present), simplifies things.

I've look into distrobox, and it seems quite interesting to "replace" docker with simpler "pods". I'm not sure it will replace the much lighter "Nix Package Manager", but some of the ease of just using any specific distro looks really good for a workflow.

I've upgraded to BETA Mint Linux 22 Wilma. A few minor issues in the upgrades to packages, but not unexpected. It all work headless as an upgrade via `ssh`, and so I was impressed at that. Haven't really used the GUI mutch beyond the initial install before the upgrade. I support the move to hold some apps at Gtk3, and would prefer more cross compatibility of apps to be able to export theme elements in some standard way.

I themed `rofi` and Emacs to a `gruvbox-dark` variant. I can't really tell much difference between soft to hard on the theme, but I suppose there must be. So yes, I'm quite happy with system progress. Don't mention the election.

## Remmina and RDP 2024-07-14

A nice find. Installing `xrdp` allows a SSH tunnel into an RDP X11 desktop. After some initial confusion, as `lightdm` is not used, so `~/.xseesion` comes in handy to set the window manager launch. Maybe a faster `dwm` desktop would be more suited to running over the link.

## DWM

So I compiled my own, avoided an install as the settings are in the compiled source. The first thing to crop up was the modifier key. As I'm operating through a Chromebook, and there is some intent to use Emacs in a terminal `st`, then I can't use the super "everything" key with hotkey bindings. The alt key is also not really suitable as it is heavily used by a number of applications.

I'll have to check the source as I configure it to work as I want it. But it is nice seeing the cinnamon desktop again, as the "server" has been headless for quite a while. The `~/.xsession` file will really help as the launch script for the extras like seting the top level window title for the status area, and launching `st` or `dmenu`. I think a `rofi` shortcut might be useful too.

## Control Shift is Logical

But is it possible while keeping the rest of the keys sane? I think CUA mode used just `zxcv` maybe `C-S-` modifiers, but I did use the arrows with `C-S-` for select and "drag" quicker than just shift alone. The infinitude of window management never ends.

## Alt Super it is

In the end `M-s-` (lower s) is the best modifier with alt pressed first as this gets passed onto the debian container in a Chromebook. `s-` does not, and `C-S-` (upper S) is the terminal modifier.
